.TH GIT-BRANCH-AUDIT 1 "2026-06-13" "git-tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git-branch-audit \- audit local branches against the default branch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git branch-audit
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git branch-audit
lists local branches with their state relative to the default branch: last
commit age, ahead/behind counts, whether they are merged into the default
branch, and the open pull request number when GitHub data is available.
.PP
The default branch is the reference point and is omitted from the listing. PR
lookup is best-effort: when
.B gh
is missing or unauthenticated the audit still reports local branch state and
omits PR numbers.
.PP
A branch counts as merged when its tip is an ancestor of the default branch or
when its collapsed diff is already present in the default branch by patch-id.
The patch-id check recognizes squash- and rebase-merged branches, which a plain
ancestor test reports as unmerged. This applies to both the
.B merged
column and
.BR \-\-drop-merged .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-porcelain
Print stable tab-separated
.B branch
records:
.BR name ,
.B merged
(true/false),
.BR ahead ,
.BR behind ,
.B pr
number (may be empty),
.B committerdate
as a Unix timestamp, and
.B gone
(true/false for a deleted upstream).
.TP
.B \-\-drop-merged
Delete local branches already merged into the default branch. The current
branch and branches checked out in a worktree are skipped. Requires
.B \-\-yes
unless
.B \-\-dry-run
is also used.
.TP
.B \-\-yes
Confirm
.BR \-\-drop-merged .
.TP
.BI "\-b, \-\-base " branch
Use this branch as the default instead of inferring one.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry-run
Print drop actions without changing anything.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Audit or cleanup completed.
.TP
.B 1
Branch deletion failed.
.TP
.B 2
Usage or local environment error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-cleanup-repo (1),
.BR git-repo-state (1),
.BR git-stash-audit (1)
